Instructions/AZ-301T04_Lab_Mod04_Deploying Messaging components to facilitate communication between Azure resources.md, before:

# Integrating Azure Solution Components using Messaging Services

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Messaging components to facilitate communication between Azure resources

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your Windows 10 lab virtual machine using the following credentials:

    - Username: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. Review Taskbar located at the bottom of your Windows 10 desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications you will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy a Service Bus namespace

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1. On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1. In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1. When prompted, authenticate with the user account account that has the owner role in the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab.

#### Task 2: Create a Service Bus namespace

1. In the upper left corner of the Azure portal, click **Create a resource**.

1. At the top of the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Service Bus** and press **Enter**.

1. On the **Everything** blade, in the search results, click **Service Bus**.

1. On the **Service Bus** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. On the **Create namespace** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, enter a globally unique name.

    - In the **Pricing tier** drop-down list, select the **Basic** option.

    - Leave the **Subscription** drop-down list entry set to its default value.

    - In the **Resource group** section, ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and then, in the text box, type **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

    - In the **Location** drop-down list, select the Azure region to which you intend to deploy resources in this lab.

    - Click the **Create** button.

1. Wait for the provisioning to complete before you proceed to the next step.

#### Task 3: Create a Service Bus Queue

1. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the newly created Service Bus namespace.

1. On the Service Bus namespace blade, in the **ENTITIES** section, click **Queues**.

1. On the Service Bus namespace blade, click the **+ Queue** button.

1. In the **Create queue** pane, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, type **messages**.

    - Leave all remaining settings with their default values.

    - Click the **Create** button.

#### Task 4: Get Service Bus Connection String

1. Back on the Service Bus namespace blade, click **Shared access policies**.

1. On the Service Bus namespace blade, click the **RootManageSharedAccessKey** policy.

1. In the **SAS Policy: RootManageSharedAccessKey** pane, locate and record the value of the **Primary Connection String** field. You will use this value later in this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new Service Bus namespace and recorded a connection string to access queues in the namespace.

## Exercise 2: Create a logic app

#### Task 1: Create an Azure Storage account

1. In the upper left corner of the Azure portal, click **Create a resource**.

1. At the top of the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Storage Account** and press **Enter**.

1. On the **Everything** blade, in the search results, click **Storage Account**.

1. On the **Storage Account** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. On the **Create storage account** blade, perform the following tasks (leave all other settings with their default values):

    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Resource group** section, in the drop-down list, select the resource group you created earlier in this exercise.

    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Storage account name** text box, type a unique name consisting of a combination of between 3 and 24 characters and digits.

    - On the **Basics** tab, ensure that the **Location** entry is set to the same Azure region you selected earlier in this exercise.
    
    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Performance** section, ensure that the **Standard** option is selected.

    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Account kind** drop-down list, ensure that the **Storage (general purpose v1)** option is selected.

    - In the **Replication** drop-down list, select the **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)** entry.

    - On the **Networking** tab, ensure that the **Connectivity method** option set to **Public endpoint (all networks)**.

    - On the **Advanced** tab, in the **Secure transfer required** section, select the **Disabled** option.

    - Click the **Review + create** button and then click the **Create** button.

1. Wait for the provisioning to complete before you proceed to the next step.

1. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the newly created Azure Storage account.

1. On the Storage account blade, click the **Containers** tile.

1. On the Storage account blade, click the **+ Container** button.

1. In the **New container** pane, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, type **messageoutput**.

    - In the **Public access level** drop-down list, select the **Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)** option.

    - Click the **Create** button.

#### Task 2: Create a logic app

1. At the top of the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Logic App** and press **Enter**.

1. On the **Everything** blade, in the search results, click **Logic App**.

1. On the **Logic App** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. On the **Create logic app** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, type **ServiceBusWorkflow**.

    - Leave the **Subscription** drop-down list entry set to its default value.

    - In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option and then, in the drop-down list, select **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

    - In the **Location** drop-down list, select the same Azure region you chose in the previous task.

    - In the **Log Analytics** section, ensure that the **Off** button is selected.

    - Click the **Review + create** button and then click the **Create** button.

1. Wait for the provisioning to complete before you proceed to the next task.

#### Task 3: Configure logic app steps.

1. In the hub menu in the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the entry representing the logic app you created in the previous task.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, scroll down and click the **Blank Logic App** tile in the **Templates** section.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Search connectors and triggers** text box, type **Service Bus**.

    - In the search results, select the trigger named **When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete) - Service Bus**.

    - In the **Connection Name** text box, type **ServiceBusConnection**.

    - In the list of **Service Bus namespaces**, select the namespace you created earlier in this lab.

    - In the list of policies, select the **RootManageSharedAccessKey** policy.

    - Click the **Create** button.

1. In the **When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete)** step, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Queue name** drop-down list, select the **messages** entry.

    - In the **Interval** text box, type **30**.

    - In the **Frequency** drop-down list, select the **Second** entry.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, click the **+ New Step** button.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Search connectors and actions** text box, type **Storage blob**.

    - In the search results, select the action named **Create blob - Azure Blob Storage**.

    - In the **Connection Name** text box, type **StorageConnection**.

    - In the list of *Storage accounts*, select the account you created earlier in this lab.

    - Click the **Create** button.

1. In the **Create Blob** step, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Folder path** text box, type **/messageoutput**.

    - In the **Blob name** text box, type **@concat(triggerBody()?['MessageId'], '.txt')**.

    - In the **Blob content** text box, type **@string(decodeBase64(triggerBody()?['ContentData']))**.

1. At the top of the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, click the **Save** button to persist your workflow.

#### Task 4: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

    > **Note**: The **Cloud Shell** icon is a symbol that is constructed of the combination of the *greater than* and *underscore* characters.

1. If this is your first time opening the **Cloud Shell** using your subscription, you will see a wizard to configure **Cloud Shell** for first-time usage. When prompted, in the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell** pane, click **Bash (Linux)**.

    > **Note**: If you do not see the configuration options for **Cloud Shell**, this is most likely because you are using an existing subscription with this course's labs. If so, proceed directly to the next task.

1. In the **You have no storage mounted** pane, click **Show advanced settings**, perform the following tasks:

    - Leave the **Subscription** drop-down list entry set to its default value.

    - In the **Cloud Shell region** drop-down list, select the Azure region matching or near the location where you deployed resources in this lab.

    - In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option and then, in the drop-down list, select **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

    - In the **Storage account** section, ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and then, in the text box below, type a unique name consisting of a combination of between 3 and 24 characters and digits.

    - In the **File share** section, ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and then, in the text box below, type **cloudshell**.

    - Click the **Create storage** button.

1. Wait for the **Cloud Shell** to finish its first-time setup procedures before you proceed to the next task.

#### Task 5: Validate Logic App using Node.js

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to install the **azure** package using NPM:

    ```sh
    npm install azure
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to open the interactive node terminal:

    ```sh
    node
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to import the **azure** module in Node:

    ```sh
    var azure = require('azure');
    ```
    > **Note**: The output will show **undefined**. This is expected.

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command (replacing the placeholder `<Service Bus namespace connection string>` with the value of your url you recorded earlier in this lab) and press **Enter** to create a new variable for your Service Bus namespace connection string:

    ```sh
    var connectionString = '<Service Bus namespace connection string>';
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new client to connect to the Service Bus namespace:

    ```sh
    var serviceBusService = azure.createServiceBusService(connectionString);
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to send a message to Service Bus namespace queue using the client.

    ```sh
    serviceBusService.sendQueueMessage('messages', { body: 'Hello World' }, function(error) { console.log(error) });
    ```

1. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the Azure Storage account you created earlier in this lab.

1. On the Storage account blade, click the **Containers** tile.

1. On the Storage account container blade, click the **messageoutput** container.

1. Note the newly created blob in your container and select **Edit** to view its content.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a logic app that is triggered by messages from a queue in a Service Bus namespace.

## Exercise 3: Remove lab resources

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open the Cloud Shell pane.

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups you created in this lab:

    ```sh
    az group list --query "[?starts_with(name,'AADesignLab11')]".name --output tsv
    ```

1. Verify that the output contains only the resource groups you created in this lab. These groups will be deleted in the next task.

#### Task 2: Delete resource groups

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the resource groups you created in this lab

    ```sh
    az group list --query "[?starts_with(name,'AADesignLab11')]".name --output tsv | xargs -L1 bash -c 'az group delete --name $0 --no-wait --yes'
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you removed the resources used in this lab.

Commit message:

Blob public access
When creating the storage account for the logic app in Exercise 2 Task 1, if you don't enable the public access when you create the storage account you can't then change the container Public access level to Blobl (anonymous read access for blobs only) (Public access to this container is being blocked because public access is disabled on this storage account)

Instructions/AZ-301T04_Lab_Mod04_Deploying Messaging components to facilitate communication between Azure resources.md, after:

# Integrating Azure Solution Components using Messaging Services

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Messaging components to facilitate communication between Azure resources

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your Windows 10 lab virtual machine using the following credentials:

    - Username: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. Review Taskbar located at the bottom of your Windows 10 desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications you will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy a Service Bus namespace

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1. On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1. In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1. When prompted, authenticate with the user account account that has the owner role in the Azure subscription you will be using in this lab.

#### Task 2: Create a Service Bus namespace

1. In the upper left corner of the Azure portal, click **Create a resource**.

1. At the top of the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Service Bus** and press **Enter**.

1. On the **Everything** blade, in the search results, click **Service Bus**.

1. On the **Service Bus** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. On the **Create namespace** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, enter a globally unique name.

    - In the **Pricing tier** drop-down list, select the **Basic** option.

    - Leave the **Subscription** drop-down list entry set to its default value.

    - In the **Resource group** section, ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and then, in the text box, type **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

    - In the **Location** drop-down list, select the Azure region to which you intend to deploy resources in this lab.

    - Click the **Create** button.

1. Wait for the provisioning to complete before you proceed to the next step.

#### Task 3: Create a Service Bus Queue

1. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the newly created Service Bus namespace.

1. On the Service Bus namespace blade, in the **ENTITIES** section, click **Queues**.

1. On the Service Bus namespace blade, click the **+ Queue** button.

1. In the **Create queue** pane, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, type **messages**.

    - Leave all remaining settings with their default values.

    - Click the **Create** button.

#### Task 4: Get Service Bus Connection String

1. Back on the Service Bus namespace blade, click **Shared access policies**.

1. On the Service Bus namespace blade, click the **RootManageSharedAccessKey** policy.

1. In the **SAS Policy: RootManageSharedAccessKey** pane, locate and record the value of the **Primary Connection String** field. You will use this value later in this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new Service Bus namespace and recorded a connection string to access queues in the namespace.

## Exercise 2: Create a logic app

#### Task 1: Create an Azure Storage account

1. In the upper left corner of the Azure portal, click **Create a resource**.

1. At the top of the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Storage Account** and press **Enter**.

1. On the **Everything** blade, in the search results, click **Storage Account**.

1. On the **Storage Account** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. On the **Create storage account** blade, perform the following tasks (leave all other settings with their default values):

    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Resource group** section, in the drop-down list, select the resource group you created earlier in this exercise.

    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Storage account name** text box, type a unique name consisting of a combination of between 3 and 24 characters and digits.

    - On the **Basics** tab, ensure that the **Location** entry is set to the same Azure region you selected earlier in this exercise.
    
    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Performance** section, ensure that the **Standard** option is selected.

    - On the **Basics** tab, in the **Account kind** drop-down list, ensure that the **Storage (general purpose v1)** option is selected.

    - In the **Replication** drop-down list, select the **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)** entry.

    - On the **Networking** tab, ensure that the **Connectivity method** option set to **Public endpoint (all networks)**.

    - On the **Advanced** tab, in the **Secure transfer required** section, select the **Disabled** option.
    
     - On the **Advanced** tab, in the **Blob public access** section, select the **Enabled** option.

    - Click the **Review + create** button and then click the **Create** button.

1. Wait for the provisioning to complete before you proceed to the next step.

1. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the newly created Azure Storage account.

1. On the Storage account blade, click the **Containers** tile.

1. On the Storage account blade, click the **+ Container** button.

1. In the **New container** pane, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, type **messageoutput**.

    - In the **Public access level** drop-down list, select the **Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)** option.

    - Click the **Create** button.

#### Task 2: Create a logic app

1. At the top of the **New** blade, in the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Logic App** and press **Enter**.

1. On the **Everything** blade, in the search results, click **Logic App**.

1. On the **Logic App** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. On the **Create logic app** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Name** text box, type **ServiceBusWorkflow**.

    - Leave the **Subscription** drop-down list entry set to its default value.

    - In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option and then, in the drop-down list, select **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

    - In the **Location** drop-down list, select the same Azure region you chose in the previous task.

    - In the **Log Analytics** section, ensure that the **Off** button is selected.

    - Click the **Review + create** button and then click the **Create** button.

1. Wait for the provisioning to complete before you proceed to the next task.

#### Task 3: Configure logic app steps.

1. In the hub menu in the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the entry representing the logic app you created in the previous task.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, scroll down and click the **Blank Logic App** tile in the **Templates** section.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Search connectors and triggers** text box, type **Service Bus**.

    - In the search results, select the trigger named **When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete) - Service Bus**.

    - In the **Connection Name** text box, type **ServiceBusConnection**.

    - In the list of **Service Bus namespaces**, select the namespace you created earlier in this lab.

    - In the list of policies, select the **RootManageSharedAccessKey** policy.

    - Click the **Create** button.

1. In the **When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete)** step, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Queue name** drop-down list, select the **messages** entry.

    - In the **Interval** text box, type **30**.

    - In the **Frequency** drop-down list, select the **Second** entry.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, click the **+ New Step** button.

1. On the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Search connectors and actions** text box, type **Storage blob**.

    - In the search results, select the action named **Create blob - Azure Blob Storage**.

    - In the **Connection Name** text box, type **StorageConnection**.

    - In the list of *Storage accounts*, select the account you created earlier in this lab.

    - Click the **Create** button.

1. In the **Create Blob** step, perform the following tasks:

    - In the **Folder path** text box, type **/messageoutput**.

    - In the **Blob name** text box, type **@concat(triggerBody()?['MessageId'], '.txt')**.

    - In the **Blob content** text box, type **@string(decodeBase64(triggerBody()?['ContentData']))**.

1. At the top of the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, click the **Save** button to persist your workflow.

#### Task 4: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

    > **Note**: The **Cloud Shell** icon is a symbol that is constructed of the combination of the *greater than* and *underscore* characters.

1. If this is your first time opening the **Cloud Shell** using your subscription, you will see a wizard to configure **Cloud Shell** for first-time usage. When prompted, in the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell** pane, click **Bash (Linux)**.

    > **Note**: If you do not see the configuration options for **Cloud Shell**, this is most likely because you are using an existing subscription with this course's labs. If so, proceed directly to the next task.

1. In the **You have no storage mounted** pane, click **Show advanced settings**, perform the following tasks:

    - Leave the **Subscription** drop-down list entry set to its default value.

    - In the **Cloud Shell region** drop-down list, select the Azure region matching or near the location where you deployed resources in this lab.

    - In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option and then, in the drop-down list, select **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

    - In the **Storage account** section, ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and then, in the text box below, type a unique name consisting of a combination of between 3 and 24 characters and digits.

    - In the **File share** section, ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and then, in the text box below, type **cloudshell**.

    - Click the **Create storage** button.

1. Wait for the **Cloud Shell** to finish its first-time setup procedures before you proceed to the next task.

#### Task 5: Validate Logic App using Node.js

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to install the **azure** package using NPM:

    ```sh
    npm install azure
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to open the interactive node terminal:

    ```sh
    node
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to import the **azure** module in Node:

    ```sh
    var azure = require('azure');
    ```
    > **Note**: The output will show **undefined**. This is expected.

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command (replacing the placeholder `<Service Bus namespace connection string>` with the value of your url you recorded earlier in this lab) and press **Enter** to create a new variable for your Service Bus namespace connection string:

    ```sh
    var connectionString = '<Service Bus namespace connection string>';
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new client to connect to the Service Bus namespace:

    ```sh
    var serviceBusService = azure.createServiceBusService(connectionString);
    ```

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to send a message to Service Bus namespace queue using the client.

    ```sh
    serviceBusService.sendQueueMessage('messages', { body: 'Hello World' }, function(error) { console.log(error) });
    ```

1. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **AADesignLab1101-RG**.

1. On the **AADesignLab1101-RG** blade, click the Azure Storage account you created earlier in this lab.

1. On the Storage account blade, click the **Containers** tile.

1. On the Storage account container blade, click the **messageoutput** container.

1. Note the newly created blob in your container and select **Edit** to view its content.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a logic app that is triggered by messages from a queue in a Service Bus namespace.

## Exercise 3: Remove lab resources

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open the Cloud Shell pane.

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups you created in this lab:

    ```sh
    az group list --query "[?starts_with(name,'AADesignLab11')]".name --output tsv
    ```

1. Verify that the output contains only the resource groups you created in this lab. These groups will be deleted in the next task.

#### Task 2: Delete resource groups

1. At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the resource groups you created in this lab

    ```sh
    az group list --query "[?starts_with(name,'AADesignLab11')]".name --output tsv | xargs -L1 bash -c 'az group delete --name $0 --no-wait --yes'
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you removed the resources used in this lab.
